# None

<a id="rpm_class"></a>

# rpm\_class

This module provides functionality for calculating Revolutions Per Minute (RPM)
using a hall effect sensor connected to a Raspberry Pi GPIO pin. It calculates
RPM based on time intervals between ABS pulses generated by magnetic sensors.

Classes:
- RPMClass: Handles RPM calculation and management, including GPIO setup.

This module is designed to be used in electronics projects where monitoring
rotation speed is required, such as in wheels or motors.

<a id="rpm_class.datetime"></a>

## datetime

<a id="rpm_class.GPIO"></a>

## GPIO

<a id="rpm_class.settings"></a>

## settings

<a id="rpm_class.logger"></a>

## logger

<a id="rpm_class.RPMClass"></a>

## RPMClass Objects

```python
class RPMClass()
```

Encapsulates the functionality for calculating and monitoring RPM (Revolutions Per Minute) using
a hall effect sensor and GPIO pins.

This class is designed to handle RPM calculations for a rotating object by monitoring signals from
a hall effect sensor connected to specific GPIO pins. It uses a rolling average to provide smooth
RPM readings and includes mechanisms to handle signal timeouts, making it suitable for real-time
applications where RPM data is critical. The class also provides access to detailed pulse interval
data for further analysis.

Attributes:
    magnets: int
        The number of magnets on the wheel per revolution.
    rev_average: int
        The rolling average of revolutions used for RPM calculations.
    gpio_line: Any
        The GPIO pin to which the hall effect sensor is connected.
    rpm_timeout: Any
        The timeout duration in seconds, used to detect when a signal is considered stale.
    timequeuesize: int
        The size of the rolling queue for time intervals between pulses.
    timequeue: list
        A rolling time-based queue that stores timestamps of pulses for RPM calculations.

<a id="rpm_class.RPMClass.__init__"></a>

#### \_\_init\_\_

```python
def __init__()
```

<a id="rpm_class.RPMClass.__del__"></a>

#### \_\_del\_\_

```python
def __del__()
```

Cleans up resources and performs necessary actions before the object is destroyed.

This method is invoked automatically when the object is about to be destroyed. It ensures
that any allocated resources are released and hardware is properly cleaned up.

Raises:
    None

<a id="rpm_class.RPMClass.recievedpulse"></a>

#### recievedpulse

```python
def recievedpulse(pin)
```

Records the occurrence of a pulse and maintains a queue of timestamps up to the defined size.

The method appends the current timestamp to the queue of recorded events when it is called.
If the number of timestamps in the queue exceeds the allowed queue size, it removes the
oldest timestamp to maintain the queue length.

Parameters:
    pin (Any): The input pin where the pulse is detected. This parameter is not currently used.

<a id="rpm_class.RPMClass.get_rpm"></a>

#### get\_rpm

```python
def get_rpm()
```

Calculates and returns the revolutions per minute (RPM) based on the time difference
between the first and last elements in the time queue. The method ensures that the
RPM is computed only if the time queue contains the required number of elements
defined by `timequeuesize`. If the time queue contains outdated elements beyond
a specified timeout (`rpm_timeout`), it removes the oldest element.

Parameters:
    None

Returns:
    float: The calculated RPM value if the time queue is of the required size.
           Returns 0 if the time queue does not have the required number of elements.

<a id="rpm_class.RPMClass.get_rpm_data"></a>

#### get\_rpm\_data

```python
def get_rpm_data()
```

Returns RPM data as a list of time intervals.

The function computes and returns a list of time intervals in seconds, where each
interval represents the difference between the first timestamp in the time queue
and the subsequent timestamps. The length of the result corresponds to one more
than the number of magnets due to the inclusion of the initial timestamp.

Returns:
    list[float]: A list of time intervals in seconds, where each interval is
    calculated as the difference between the first timestamp and the subsequent
    timestamps in the `timequeue` attribute.

